docs: add release post for ipfs@0.63.x (#420)
ipfs/ipfs-blog: src/_blog/js-ipfs-0.63.0-esm-libp2p-0.37.x-and-lightweight-peerids.md

---
title: js-IPFS 0.63.0 ESM, libp2p@0.37.x and lightweight PeerIds
description: js-IPFS 0.63.0 brings ESM and lightweight PeerIds
author: Alex Potsides
date: 2022-06-01
permalink: "/2022-06-01-js-ipfs-0-63/"
translationKey: ''
header_image: "/header-image-js-ipfs-placeholder.png"
tags:
- js-ipfs

---
# 🔦 Highlights

> > switches to ESM only, upgrades to libp2p@0.37.x and brings lightweight PeerIds

Reviewer: Or maybe wrap with with ticks?

> `js-IPFS@0.63.0` is powering through the stratosphere along with many small bug fixes and performance improvements!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`js-IPFS@0.63.0` is rocketing forward with major improvements to its foundations along with many small bug fixes and performance improvements!
```

If you are running in a CJS environment (e.g. node before `v14.8`), you'll need to either convert your codebase to ESM, or use the [dynamic `import` function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) to load `ipfs` and/or `libp2p`.  Note that `ipfs` and `libp2p` are only tested fully on Active and Current LTS versions, which is `v16`+ at the time of writing.

## libp2p in TypeScript

With the `libp2p@0.37.x` release, `libp2p` has been entirely rewritten from the ground up in TypeScript.

This has given us a more stable and predictable base on which to build next generation distributed projects, as well as better support for automated tooling, code completion, docs and a generally greatly improved developer experience.

A large scale re-evaluation of the exposed interfaces has taken place which is a breaking change - please see the [libp2p@0.37.x migration guide](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p/blob/master/doc/migrations/v0.36-v.037.md#typescript) for any changes you will need to make to your application.

## lightweight `PeerId`s

> The [PeerId](https://docs.libp2p.io/concepts/peer-id/) is a core concept of `libp2p`.  
> 
> They let us identify remote peers and verify data those peers send to us, since a `PeerId` is either a hash of a public key in the case of an [RSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSA_(cryptosystem)) derived `PeerId`, or the public key itself in the case of [Ed25519](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EdDSA) `PeerId`s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [PeerId](https://docs.libp2p.io/concepts/peer-id/) is a core concept of `libp2p`.  PeerIds let us identify remote peers and verify data those peers send to us, since they are either a hash of a public key in the case of an [RSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSA_(cryptosystem)) derived `PeerId`, or the public key itself in the case of an [Ed25519](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EdDSA) `PeerId`.
```

This is also a breaking change, please see the [`ipfs@0.63.x` upgrade guide](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/upgrading/v0.62-v0.63.md#peerids) for any changes you will need to make to your application.

### ⚠ BREAKING CHANGES

* This module is now ESM only and there return types of some methods have changed

Please see the [`ipfs@0.63.x` upgrade guide](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/blob/master/docs/upgrading/v0.62-v0.63.md) for any changes you will need to make to your application.

### Features

* update to libp2p 0.37.x ([#4092](https://www.github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues/4092)) ([74aee8b](https://www.github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/commit/74aee8b3d78f233c3199a3e9a6c0ac628a31a433))

### Dependencies

* The following workspace dependencies were updated
  * dependencies
    * ipfs-cli bumped from ^0.12.3 to ^0.13.0
    * ipfs-core bumped from ^0.14.3 to ^0.15.0
  * devDependencies
    * interface-ipfs-core bumped from ^0.154.2 to ^0.155.0
    * ipfs-client bumped from ^0.7.8 to ^0.8.0
    * ipfs-core-types bumped from ^0.10.3 to ^0.11.0
    * ipfs-http-client bumped from ^56.0.3 to ^57.0.0

# 🗺️ What’s next?

> Check out the js-IPFS [Project Roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/ipfs/projects/6) which contains headline features organised in the order we hope them to land.

Reviewer: I think it's great for us to point to what's next, but I don't think that link is accurate.  Are you thinking we updated before publishing?  Lets sync on this.

> Only large features are called out in the roadmap, expect lots of small bugfix releases between the roadmapped items!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only large features are called out in the roadmap.  Expect lots of small bugfix releases between the roadmapped items!
```

* [@xoayxoay](https://github.com/xoayxoay) (1 issue, 2 comments)
* [@xxxxj-up](https://github.com/xxxxj-up) (1 issue)
* [@yingshaoxo](https://github.com/yingshaoxo) (2 comments)
* [@YoshieraHuang](https://github.com/YoshieraHuang) (1 commit, 1 PR, 3 issues, 7 comments)
* [@younasm](https://github.com/younasm) (2 comments)
* [@yusefnapora](https://github.com/yusefnapora) (5 commits, 3 PRs, 1 issue, 5 comments)
* [@Zaba505](https://github.com/Zaba505) (1 commit, 1 PR, 1 issue, 2 comments)
* [@zeim839](https://github.com/zeim839) (1 commit, 2 PRs, 1 issue, 2 comments)
* [@ZeroCool22](https://github.com/ZeroCool22) (2 issues, 2 comments)
* [@zeroxbt](https://github.com/zeroxbt) (2 issues)
* [@zhaoyiming0803](https://github.com/zhaoyiming0803) (1 issue)
* [@zouantchaw](https://github.com/zouantchaw) (1 issue)
* [@zyb1101](https://github.com/zyb1101) (1 issue)

# 🙌🏽 Want to contribute?

Would you like to contribute to the IPFS project and don’t know how? Well, there are a few places you can get started:

- Check the issues with the `help wanted` label in the [js-IPFS repo](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22)

> - Join an IPFS All Hands, introduce yourself and let us know where you would like to contribute: https://github.com/ipfs/team-mgmt/#weekly-ipfs-all-hands

Reviewer: Remove since this is no longer happening right?

> - Hack with IPFS and show us what you made! The All Hands call is also the perfect venue for demos, join in and show us what you built

Reviewer: This is a good idea, but we don't have a venue for this currently.
